#LyX 1.6.6.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Cat movement regulator
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It was decided that a simple movement regulator would be sufficient for
 the cats.
 Therefore we limited the cats to travel in straight paths, with rotation
 in between.
 The cats were constructed so that they could rotate on a spot, i.e.
 around an axis.
 These choises also made it easier for the absolute positioning filter.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Calibration
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As it turned out, Lejos had a built in Pilot class, aiding the programming
 of the movement regulator.
 Given the diameter of the wheels, the traveled distance can be calculated
 from the motor odometer data.
 Furthermore, the distance between the wheels is used to calculate how much
 the cat has rotated.
 It turned out that the left and right motors weren't equally strong which
 caused the cat to drift off course when trying to travel straigt.
 However the specified size of the wheels was tweaked to compensate for
 this.
 The actual size of them was the same.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Smooth acceleration
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The provided Lejos movement pilot caused the cat to travel and rotate with
 a more or less constant velocity, resulting in an abrupt start and stop
 of each movement command.
 This hard acceleration caused the wheels to slip, which in turn fooled
 the odometer.
 The Lejos pilot was therefore modified to allow smooth acceleration without
 any wheel slip.
 Both the travel and rotation velocity was implemented to have an ascending
 and descending ramp.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
