#LyX 1.6.6.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Color coding
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One suggestion to the problem of the cats knowing their own correct position
 and orientation was using a color coded grid on the floor of the arena.
 Using an available color sensor the idea was to detect whenever the cat
 traveled over a colored strip.
 With four colors printed on a white paper it should be possible to detect
 in which direction the cat is moving and how far it has gone.
 By having both horizontal and vertical lines with alternating colors one
 can detect the x- and y-component of the cats velocity.
 However it turned out that the color sensor sampeled its reading from quite
 a large area, which meant that we had to use rather wide colored strips
 for them to be detected correcly.
 This presented the problem with the intersections of the horizontal and
 the vertical lines.
 When the color sensor crossed over such an intersection a mix of both colors
 are detected instead of each separatley.
 This meant that neither the x- or y-component of movement was updated,
 resulting in an erroneus position estimate.
 A solution to this could be to limit the cat to move only along in four
 directions, parallell and perpendicular to the lines.
 That would however require that the cat could correct its orientation from
 time to time if it got off track.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another problem was that the color sensor was sensitive to the ambient lighting.
 This could be accounted for in the software to some extent with some clever
 programming, but not completely.
 These limitations made us abandon the color coding altogether after some
 time, even though we had put quite a bit of work in to it.
 Instead we chose to use the camera and landmarks to locate the cats.
 The color codes does however have the nice property of providing both position
 and orientation very often, without having to look for any landmarks.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
