#LyX 1.6.6.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Geometric filter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Java simulation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The filter was first implemented in our Java simulation framework and shown
 to work.
 There were some problems though.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The errors in the angle measurements had to be handled in some way.
 An easy method to do this to some extent is using the assumption that the
 noise was a zero mean Gaussian process (same assumption as for the other
 filters).
 This was implemented as a pre-filter who would mean all the measurements
 of each landmark seen.
 So if there would be many sightings of a certain landmark all information
 would be used.
 This method is not very robust because the mean of the samples from a Gaussian
 process with mean zero would only go to zero with a large number of samples.
 This was not the case but the measurements did become better when running
 the filter with this pre-filtering method.
 All data would be invalidated if the cat would move and to further remove
 errors at least three landmarks had to be seen before correcting position.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An other problem could be that the circles would not intersect or that there
 would be no obvious choice with of the intersections would be the correct
 one.
 The filter always tried to go for the closest intersection.
 If no decision was obvious the filter would make the decision not to correct.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Brick implementation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since the simulation framework works almost the same way as the brick code,
 from the filters point of view, the brick implementation was painless.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One difference between the brick and the simulation framework is how the
 errors in turned angle work.
 The discovery was made early that looking for three landmarks to correct
 the turned angle would be tedious.
 It would simply take too much time to look for three landmarks every time
 the cat had turned.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The compromise was made that the filter would correct its angle estimate
 with just one landmark, but only a very small amount at a time.
 Most of the position error was found to come from errors in the angle turned
 at the start of the execution of a move command.
 Error in traveled distance and turning drift while going straight was found
 to be very small.
 Hence this method gave us a lot less error in the position after the cat
 had traveled longer distances.
 The error in the turning did not have as much opportunity to propagate
 with distance traveled as before.
 The correcting was one degree per second and landmark seen.
 To complement this the decision was made to make the cat look for landmarks
 with even intervals but only if no other cat was sweeping for landmarks.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This approach turned out to work most of the time.
 Some of the time the filter would converge to a point far away from the
 actual position.
 Sadly there was no time to really test this or find the error.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
