#LyX 1.6.5 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Guide
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The communication between the cats would most of the time be slow and hence
 the delay in information on the others positions would lag considerably.
 To avoid collisions the cats where not allowed to move too far in one go,
 to increase the chances of each cat having time to filter and communicate
 the information on position.
 Also they waited a while after a move to let the other cats have time to
 receive the new coordinates.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When implemented on the brick it was found out that the calculation was
 painfully slow.
 Sadly the implementation on the brick was late and the speed problems did
 not show in the simulation framework.
 When running in the environment (as the lowest priority thread etc) the
 calculation could take four seconds.
 Some last minute optimization then made it work in only one second even
 though that can not be called fast.
 It was decided to time slot the movement to avoid collisions.
 Since all cats have a synced clock it was not hard to implement.
 Each cat was given three seconds while the other ones waited for it to
 move.
 A faster implementation would not have been hard to do but working (however
 inefficient) code should never be changed at the last minute.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
