#LyX 1.6.6.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Alternative solutions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Absolute positioning with electromagnets
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An initial idea of robot positioning was to use two electromagnets generating
 two separate magnetic fields, strong enough to cover a large enough area
 of interest (maybe 2x2 m).
 By shifting these fields on and off, we were hoping to extract field-vectors
 of these fields with a magnetic sensor (compass), and triangulate the position
 of the robot by calculating the direction of the magnetic source.
 This ambitious concept proved hard to realize for numerous reasons, and
 would probably just on its own have been a much larger project than what we were
 about to execute.
 To cover the area required with a sufficient field, we first looked on
 the market for purchasing an already existing electromagnet.
 However, we soon realized that the strength of the fields they generated
 was not adequate for our needs.
 To get enough strength we had to build our own electromagnets.
 By letting an iron core be equipped with some hundred laps of wire, and
 letting a strong current flow through it, we figured that a large enough
 magnetic field for our needs could be obtained.
 To get a position from the field vectors which we hoped to be able to get from the
 magnetic sensors, available in the LEGO Mindstorm kit, we needed to switch
 the two magnetic fields on and off separately.
 Otherwise these field vectors would have merged into a single one, with
 a complicated structure.
 To get a good measurement of the generated field vector we wanted to have
 them at least twice as large as Earths magnetic field, over the whole arena.
 This due to enabling us to distinguish it at all. 
 After running some calculations for our hypothetical electromagnets, we
 were forced to abandon this sub-project, since they showed that the size
 of the field the electromagnets were required to generate far exceeded
 what reasonably could have been achieved with available equipment.
 Another reason to reject this idea was the magnetic sensors from LEGO that
 did not give good enough measurements to satisfy our ambitions for this application.
 A bad sensor with fluctuating readings would easily dismantle the purpose
 of the system, by giving the sensitive system a high rate of wrong values,
 and make the calculations for the estimated position disastrous.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Color coding
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another suggestion to the problem of the cats knowing their own correct
 position and orientation was using a color coded grid on the floor of the
 arena.
 Using an available color sensor the idea was to detect whenever the cat
 traveled over a colored strip.
 With four colors printed on a white paper it should be possible to detect
 in which direction the cat is moving and how far it has gone.
 By having both horizontal and vertical lines with alternating colors, one
 can detect the x- and y-component of the cat’s velocity.
 However it turned out that the color sensor sampled its reading from quite
 a large area, which meant that we had to use rather wide colored stripes
 for them to be detected correctly.
 This presented the problem with the intersections of the horizontal and
 the vertical lines.
 When the color sensor crossed over such an intersection, a mix of both
 colors was detected instead of each one separately.
 This meant that neither the x- or y-component of movement was updated,
 resulting in an erroneous position estimate.
 A solution to this could be to limit the cat to move only in four directions,
 parallel and perpendicular to the lines.
 That would however require that the cat could correct its orientation from
 time to time if it got off track.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another problem was that the color sensor was sensitive to the ambient lighting.
 This could be accounted for in the software to some extent with some clever
 programming, but not completely.
 These limitations made us abandon the color coding altogether after some
 time, even though we had put quite a bit of work in to it.
 Instead we chose to use the camera and landmarks to locate the cats.
 The color codes do however have the nice property of providing both position
 and orientation very often, without having to look for any landmarks.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
