#LyX 1.6.6.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Cat design
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Locomotion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
 We have tried some difference design for the tracking cats and found one 
 which was most suited for the task, using 3 Interactive Servo Motor.
 At first we used 2 driving wheels on the side of the brick and a wheel for 
 back support for the cats in which we believed would help easy the rotation.
 However, we soon found out after the design was done that it made the rotation 
 inaccurate. Therefore we use a LEGO-piece as a back support instead. We use the
 the last motor for camera rotation which we placed on top of the brick.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Camera module
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As the goal of this project is to track the mouse we wanted the cameras
 on the cats to be looking on the mouse most of the time.
 In fact, apart from the landmark sweeps, the camera should be looking at
 the mouse all the time.
 The camera was first fitted directly to a motor enabling the camera to
 rotate and look around the arena.
 Tests showed that errors in the motor odometer were quite large, up to
 10°, resulting in a very bad angular reading.
 The errors did not drift, so they could in theory be corrected by calibration.
 However, this was made difficult since the error was not constant but varied
 over the angular position of the motor.
 In addition to this, the quite large dead zone of the motor also added
 to the errors in the angular readings.
 The solution to this was to gear down the rotation of the camera five times
 with a large cog wheel.
 That way the errors were reduced about five times.
 The maximum speed of the camera rotation was of course also reduced five
 times, but the speed with the cog wheel showed to be sufficient.
 In fact, the camera's susceptibility to motion blur prevented any rotation
 much faster than this anyway.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
