#LyX 1.6.6.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Graphical user interface
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The filter data going from one cat to another was successfully used also
 for visual representation of the inner workings of the system.
 A GUI written in Java was created for this purpose.
 It had a 2D representation of fixed beacons in the corners, a red dot for
 the mouse, and three black dots with different ID numbers for identification
 of the cats.
 The 2D representation of the area automatically updated when a new packet
 arrived to the PC.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Robust network implementation allowed robots to send other useful information
 to the PC.
 One could monitor the landmark or mouse measurements that robots took and
 used for calculations.
 Likewise the decisions of the guide were also sent to the GUI.
 Guide and other parts of the robots were also able to be controlled from
 the GUI.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
