#LyX 1.6.7 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
PARstart{W}{ith}
\end_layout

\end_inset

 this work we present two ways of autonomous target tracking for a group
 of mobile cooperating robots using on-line bearings-only measurements.
 The target is non-cooperative and moving within a bounded environment with
 potentially occluded areas.
 Cooperation between the robots is achieved by communication over a wireless
 network and data storage on a PC working as a base station.
 Our solution implements two different tracking filters; the Unscented Kalman
 Filter (UKF) and a distributed particle filter.
 All calculations are made on the chosen mobile Lego® Mindstorms® NXT robots,
 which have somewhat limited computational resources.
 It is important to note that no calculations relating to the actual positioning
 are made on the PC as it was used for data sharing and visualization only.
 The bearings only measurements are acquired using a set of video cameras
 connected to the robots.
 In addition, the motors used for propulsion and camera rotation also have
 built in odometers.
 The desired positions of the cats are determined using the guidance algorithm
 (guide).
 Proof of concepts of the suggested solutions were simulated in Matlab before
 the Lego implementation was started.
 The robots are hereafter called cats and the target they are tracking is
 called the mouse.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Following this introduction, an overview of some previous work relating
 to particle and unscented Kalman filters is given in Section 2.
 In the following Methodology section, a brief description is given of the
 mathematical theory behind the filters as well as the guide.
 We also present some results from the Matlab simulations here.
 Section 4 describes our implementation, including the overall software
 architecture, physical design of the cats and the landmarks, control algorithms
 for the movements of the cats, network architecture, Java implementation
 of the filters and the guide, the graphical user interface on the PC, as
 well as the Java simulation framework.
 The results are given in Section 5, showing benchmarks of the different
 subsystems.
 A discussion of the results are given in Section 6, as well as some suggestions
 for future work and what can be done to improve the performance of the
 system.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
