#LyX 1.6.6.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Landmarks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Construction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We encountered several difficulties when selecting a suitable visual marker
 for the landmarks and the mouse.
 Because the image processing properties of the camera is rather limited,
 it can only give the location of a few targets specified by a predetermined
 color range.
 The output is the size and the location of the bounding box around the
 detected targets in view.
 An ideal visual marker should have a color that is captured by the camera
 to have a very specific color.
 Furthermore, this color should be very unusual so that something else that
 appears in the view isn't detected as the target.
 First we tried one of the red balls that came with the Lego kit as a visual
 marker.
 Unfortunatley, the color of the ball was detected differently depending
 of the lightning.
 The color was different if the camera saw the side of the ball in shadow
 compared to if it saw the side which was lit up.
 One could compensate for this by allowing a bigger range of red color to
 be considered as the target.
 This however gave quite many erroneus detections of the target.
 It was clear that a better visual marker was needed to allow acceptable
 tracking of the mouse.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The solution adopted involved the use of Cold Cathode Fluorescent Lamps
 (CCFLs) of various colors.
 As opposed to light emitting diodes (LEDs) they can be viewed from any
 direction in a horizontal plane if placed standing.
 LEDs on the other hand can only be viewed from one side.
 Furthermore, the CCFLs have a much larger luminous area than the point-like
 apprearance of LEDs.
 This is neccesary if the visual marker should be detectable at large distances.
 This criterion proved quite difficult to satisfy even with the CCFLs.
 The size of the lamp in the picture decreases approximatley with the inverse
 of the distance 
\begin_inset Note Comment
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Insert citation here - Wikipedia, Magnification.
 How?
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 In combination with the limited resolution of the camera, this made the
 CCFL no larger than a few pixels or not visible at all at distances much
 larger than a meter.
 Also, the CCFLs were quite bright compared to the ambient lighting which
 made CCFLs overexposed.
 Thus, the camera saw a white target with only a small colored halo instead
 of a fully colored object.
 As we had no direct control over the camera's exposure, this could not
 be corrected in it's software.
 The solution was to wrap the CCFL with a semi-translucent plastic sheet.
 Choosing the plastic to be colored the same way as the CCFL gave the best
 appearance to the marker.
 This not only made the lamp appear to be less bright, and therefore recieve
 a correct exposure, but also made the marker larger, permitting detection
 at larger distances.
 The final four landmarks had the colors blue, green, purple and white.
 A similar red marker was affixed to the mouse.
 Red was chosen because it was the easiest color to detect.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
