#LyX 1.6.6.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass IEEEtran
\use_default_options false
\language english
\inputencoding default
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\float_placement tbh
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Network Architecture
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Limitations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The robot's Bluetooth stack is limited to one incoming connection and three
 outgoing connections.
 Any robot can initiate and accept connections simultaneously as long as
 the above mentioned limit is not reached.
 We have also noticed huge delays (sometimes up to one or more seconds)
 when a robot was dealing with more than one connection.
 We have also measured that it takes about two and a half seconds to successfull
y open a connection.
 The bandwidth tests showed that the maximum transmission speed achieved
 was 7 kilobytes per second and only when streaming (sending data from one
 robot to another without waiting for any response) big chunks (512B) of
 data.
 All of these details were important while designing the network architecture
 for the robots.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Network with a robot hub
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Two kinds of network architecture solutions were considered.
 The first one is using one robot as a network hub.
 In such way a small network consisting of three slaves connected to one
 master can be constructed.
 There can be no more than four robots in such a network because of the
 limitations mentioned above.
 However there could be a possibility to interconnect these small networks
 and then have a network of any size.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This was our first network architecture of choice and we started implementing
 it.
 After major parts were completed we encountered some technical problems.
 First of all we noticed delays when a master was dealing with multiple
 outgoing connections.
 It took a great amount of time (sometimes up to two seconds) to switch
 from one connection to another.
 This was unacceptable if we wanted to keep the network fast and responsive.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another issue coherent with network robustness was small network interconnection.
 We wanted to have a network architecture witch supports any number of robots
 (even though we only had three robots).
 This meant that there would have to be a routing system implemented since
 the network stack in the robot is not suitable for a fully interconnected
 peer to peer network (where every robot gets every data even if it is not
 addressed to it).
 This would have introduced quite an overhead which is not desirable on
 slow networks.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Network with a PC hub
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our solution was to move the network hub from a robot to the PC.
 A PC can manage many connections with no noticeable delays.
 There are practically no limits to the number of robots connected to one
 PC so no small interconnected networks are needed.
 Every robot has to manage only one connection to the PC eliminating multiple
 connection managing delays.
 Another advantage is that all the network traffic is going through the
 PC and the data can be used for visualization on-the-fly without any special
 code in the robots.
 Next to data visualization PC was also managing connections to the robots
 and forwarding packets from one robot to another.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
