The problem of using the colored balls is that it's hard to pick a good color range that only appears on the ball, but nowhere else. Different lighting and shadows will give different colors of the ball. The solution  to this could be to use a light emitting marker.

We tried using small regular LEDs, but the problem with these is 1) the light is completely over exposed, resulting i a white dot. White is a bad color to track. 2) At longer distances the white dot is too small to detect. This could be solved by using a brighter LED.

We have tried using placing a very bright LED behind the red ball, which makes it glow in a nice even red color. There is still the problem of other red objects that might me in view. To circumvent this you could use an object with a special shape. The detected objects from the camera are represented as rectangles, with their sides parallel to the image edges. If we can have a object that is detected as a narrow tall rectangle, this can be detected and easily filtered out, removing all the other detected objects. As suitable marker could therefore be a battery powered florescent lighting tube. We have found some cheap ones here: http://www.maxfps.se/product_view.aspx?productid=1220. They use 12V and are doesn't drain too much current so they could be powered by batteries. If the light turns out to be too bright as with the small regular LEDs you can just put some paper (or some other transparent material) around it to lower light intensity.

Another solution could be to use sufficiently bright LEDs placed in some smart manner. For example you could use 3 LEDs placed vertically at equal distance. Then you can filter out all other objects that doesn't lie on a vertical line with equal distance between the objects. The distance to the camera will therefore not matter. Of course, the LEDs should be visible from all angles, which might or might not be hard to accomplish. You cloud use two sets of LEDs facing in opposite directions to get 360 degree visibility if one set doesn't do it.
